#summary Half Byte Loader BETA FAQ
#labels Phase-Requirements

==What is HB Loader? ==

HB Loader is a project to build an easy to port user-mode homebrew loader for game exploits.

==Why HB Loader?==

To allow users with yet unhackable PSPs to experience the homebrew scene.

==Does this allow me to downgrade?==

No, will never be.

==Does whis allow full HEN/CFW?==

No, will never be.

==Does this allow kernel access?==

No, will never be.

==Does this load ISO/CSO?==

No, doubt will ever be.

==Does this allow me to use emulators?==

Some emulators work, others don't, but we are trying to improve the compatibility

==Then what homebrews do work?==

We're having tests for this here: http://advancedpsp.tk/foro_es/viewforum.php?f=41

==Is this useful for a normal PSP user?==

Not yet, but the objective is to release a fully working version eventually.

==What's the project current status?==

It's still a BETA, but the developers are working on it ;) Check the HBL development subforum: http://advancedpsp.tk/foro_es/viewforum.php?f=37 for more information on developing. You can also check the issues: http://code.google.com/p/valentine-hbl/issues/list

==When this will be completed?==

No timing schedule for now.

==When this will be useful for normal users?==

No timing schedule for now.

==What is need to be done to finish it?==

Check the HBL development subforum: http://advancedpsp.tk/foro_es/viewforum.php?f=37. Also here: http://code.google.com/p/valentine-hbl/issues/list

==How can I help?==

1. If you're an advanced developer, studying the source code and helping us with our issues: http://code.google.com/p/valentine-hbl/issues/list

2. If you're a developer but find hard to understand HBL source, contact the active developers so they can help you understand it

3. Help with development-related tasks: http://advancedpsp.tk/foro_es/viewtopic.php?f=39&t=363&start=10

4. Try homebrews with HBL and report if they work or not. Please attach as much information on the homebrew as possible: http://advancedpsp.tk/foro_es/viewforum.php?f=41

Check the HBL forum: http://advancedpsp.tk/foro_es/viewforum.php?f=39

==Can I make modifications/use the source code for myself?==

Yes you can, in fact it's your right. But you MUST also make the source with the changes you did available for everyone to download. You cannot distribute only the binaries.

==How can I install this?==

1. You need the Patapon 2 Demo: http://rapidshare.com/files/376959863/patapon2.zip. Put it on the PSP.

2. You also need a hacked savegame, which exploits the game: http://advancedpsp.tk/foro_es/download/file.php?id=329. Put it on the PSP. Try and make sure the demo works, the savegame shows and it's loadable.

3. You can download compiled binaries here: http://code.google.com/p/valentine-hbl/downloads/list, here: http://advancedpsp.tk/foro_es/viewtopic.php?f=39&t=311, and also here: http://wololo.net/wagic/hbl/

Alternatively (and _better_), you can compile HBL. For this, you need to have setup the PSPSDK (_svn://svn.ps2dev.org/psp/trunk_) and retreive the HBL source code by using this svn command: _svn checkout http://valentine-hbl.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ valentine-hbl-read-only_. Then go to the _eLoader_ directory and "make" it. 

4. How to setup HBL on your MS: 

- Copy _h.bin_ to MS root. 

- Create a folder on MS root called _HBL_

- Copy on _HBL_ folder the folders libs_5xx, libs_6xx and config

- Copy on _HBL_ folder the files _hbl.bin_ and _menu.bin_

- Place your homebrews as normal, i.e. on ms0:/PSP/GAME

5. Trigger the exploit: run Patapon 2 demo, load the savegame, press R when you get to the game

For more information about this : http://advancedpsp.tk/foro_es/viewforum.php?f=39